[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: This is the one
we were in before, right?
If I add another paragraph,
>> Brian Holt: It's green, right?
But what happens if I want,
these are now different paragraphs, right?
This one's like the leading paragraph, and
this one is like a trailing paragraph or
something like that, and I want them to be
styled differently for what ever reason.
Using these p tags, you can't do that,
you can't differentiate between the two.
So what you need to do is that's when
these classes, all that stuff I just made
you do, and you were banging your head
against table saying why am I doing this?
It's going to start making sense now.
So, lets collapse that right there.
I now have leading paragraph and
secondary paragraph and here.
Why is this so weird?
That's weird, okay.
Leading P,
which refers to this one is green,
and secondary P is blue, right?
>> Speaker 2: Does the dot just
indicate that it's the class?
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: That's exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Would you
[CROSSTALK] an id then?
>> Brian Holt: Nope use a hash.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
which I think I talk about later.
We'll get to that when we get to that.
But, notice here that I have a leading
period in front of the class.
That's just indicating to CSS,
I am styling right now based on an ID,
because in theory,
I can have both an ID, and
a class that have the same name and
they are totally separate, right?
They're kept in totally different spaces.
So, if I say like here, ID.
By the way this is a bad idea but
just for demonstration purposes if
I wanted to address this what I would say
is leading-p right,
and that would address this, not this.
So again, contrived example, really bad
idea, but that's the concept at play here.
>> Brian Holt: So my question is here,
if I add another paragraph
with no class, no class,
I crack myself up.
What color would it be?
This is all the CSS right here.
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna be black, why?
It's black because it has no other option
right, it's like nothing is setting it
to be anything else and the default color
for the browser is black, so it is black.
>> Brian Holt: Again,
because no rules are affecting it.
So again we kind of see
where this is going right?
>> Brian Holt: Classes
are extensively used for styling.
And for some people, I'm mostly in
this train of thought but exclusively.
I will prefer to never style based an ID,
and
the reason being is
that it's not reusable.
And very rarely do I try and
write things that are not reusable, right?
If I spend all this time writing
this beautiful CSS to make this
little widget really pretty,
I don't want that to be unique right?
Like I want to be able to rip that out and
use it on another page.
It's all about code reuse and
ID's are not reuseable for the most part.
Cool, so this is kind of what
we've been leading up to is there
are different rules for
styles winning out right?
Or stated differently when two styles
conflict, which one gets applied.
When we're about to talk about that,
here in a second.
Right if I have,
going back to this example over here,
just close these, leave this page.
Leave this page, thank you CodePen.
Leave this page.
Now let's leave this page okay.
Like if this has both
leading paragraph and
secondary paragraph which one wins out,
right?
That question is not intuitively obvious.
So if it's not intuitively obvious
then don't worry because it's not.
But that's again leading up to
this thing specificity that we
are going to talk about.
>> Speaker 3: Can you just go over once
again how you differentiate the classes
and the IDs in the CSS?
>> Brian Holt: Sure, so let's just say
this one up here is id="paragraph-1".
Right, I think I talked about,
I have slides on this,
so we'll go over it a couple times,
but it would just be paragraph-1.
So that-
>> Speaker 3: So
the hash versus the period?
>> Brian Holt: It's the hash.
This hash means that it's an ID.
Say like color yellow should
end up being yellow, yeah.
>> Brian Holt: All right more questions?
Please.
>> Speaker 4: Is there a way of setting
up your csf so it's relational?
So you could say the second
paragraph following a div,
I want it to have this style?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah so
there definitely is.
It's kind of beyond
the scope of this class.
That's a bit more of
an advanced technique.
They're called pseudo classes.
I touch on them but
I don't actually go into them.
>> Brian Holt: So I'll show you.
>> Brian Holt: That's not going to work.
Anyway it has to do with this nth child
selector, this is actually incorrect but
that's what you're gonna use is
you're gonna use colon nth child and
in parenthesis you're gonna
tell which one you want.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: The nth leading paragraph
well the child that is yeah so
it becomes kind of a mess, right?
Because we have different
paragraphs in here,
and we wouldn't necessarily
be referring to the same one.
So that's the general gist
though is that you're gonna use
an nth child pseudo-class.
For what I would recommend while you're
trying to wrap your mind all this CSS,
is just give it a different class and
style based on that class rather
than trying to do relations.
>> Brian Holt: That tends
to be more clear anyway.
In fact I catch a lot of flack at that
at Reddit because I use nth child
a lot, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: What's the long
form of the dot for class?
>> Brian Holt: The long form?
>> Speaker 3: Like would I just say class
leading-p something instead of the dot?
>> Brian Holt: There is no long form?
>> Speaker 3: Okay, so
I have to use the dot to refer to a class.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and it's just one
of those things you just get used to.
>> Speaker 3: All right.
>> Brian Holt: Good question though.
I like where your head's at,
like trying to be succinct and
that's a really good quality
to be having as a programmer.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Let's open another CodePen here.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
expand out here, oops.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
I believe this is just that one that
you gave all the classes to earlier.
Same HTML, right?
>> Brian Holt: Blog-post P Blog post,
blog post title.
This is just kind of an example of
putting some concepts together.
So here I have the blog post right,
which is just everything, right,
everything inside of
a individual blog post.
I gave it a border, which is this
little black thing around it.
I gave it some margin.
And I gave it some padding.
So margin and padding it's like something
that confuses people for the longest time,
it's okay if you find it a little bit
confusing, we'll go over it several times.
But essentially both of them are used for
spacing.
So in particular let's try taking
out the margin bottom, for example.
These are now going to bump up against
each other, so now that line is solid.
But as soon as I put that
back there's going to be just that
little bit of space between the two.
Whereas the padding here,
that's kind of like interior padding.
So I have this blog post, and
if I take this padding out
everything the text is going to
push against the walls, right?
I don't want it to do that.
I just want like a little bit of
space to give it some more breathe,
make it easier to read.
So, again, margin is exterior,
padding is interior, right?
Again we'll go,
I actually have a whole side,
just talking about like all the different
measurements that we have to worry about.
And also don't worry like, you're seeing
like border or margin bottom like
you don't like to try and memorize this,
they're just like don't try and
memorize anything you can Google and
find out in five seconds right.
That's kinda my rule of thumb.
[COUGH] Like for example like what are all
the things I need for a border right?
This is actually the shorthand for
border but it's also the way
that everyone rights it right.
But you can also do like,
border-color red and
that's some like everything will be red.
>> Brian Holt: And
again notice it says black right here and
it says red right here, why it is?
It's just lower in the CSS that's all.